docs/resources.md, before:

# Contributor resources

This document contains educational resources for potential contributors.

## Autodiff

Here's an introductory video on autodiff.

> Ari Seff. What is Automatic Differentation?. 2020. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wG_nF1awSSY

## Linear algebra

3Blue1Brown's _Essence of Linear Algebra_ video series provides geometric intuition for linear algebra.

> 3Blue1Brown. _Essence of Linear Algebra_, 2016. https://www.3blue1brown.com/topics/linear-algebra

## Convex optimization

Visually Explained's _Convex Optimization_ video series provides geometric intuition for convex optimization and the interior-point method.

> Visually Explained. _Convex Optimization_, 2021. https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLqwozWPBo-FuPu4d9pFOobsCF1vDGdY_I

Sleipnir's authors learned numerical optimization from the following book and relied heavily upon it to implement Sleipnir.

> Nocedal, J. and Wright, S. _Numerical Optimization_, 2nd. ed., Springer, 2006. https://www.math.uci.edu/~qnie/Publications/NumericalOptimization.pdf

Sleipnir's internals occasionally reference the following papers.

> Wächter, A. and Biegler, L. _On the implementation of an interior-point filter line-search algorithm for large-scale nonlinear programming_, 2005. http://cepac.cheme.cmu.edu/pasilectures/biegler/ipopt.pdf
>
> Byrd, R. and Nocedal J. and Waltz R. _KNITRO: An Integrated Package for Nonlinear Optimization_, 2005. https://users.iems.northwestern.edu/~nocedal/PDFfiles/integrated.pdf

Commit message:

Link to internal algorithms from resources page

docs/resources.md, after:

# Contributor resources

This document contains educational resources for potential contributors.

## Autodiff

Here's an introductory video on autodiff.

> Ari Seff. What is Automatic Differentation?. 2020. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wG_nF1awSSY

## Linear algebra

3Blue1Brown's _Essence of Linear Algebra_ video series provides geometric intuition for linear algebra.

> 3Blue1Brown. _Essence of Linear Algebra_, 2016. https://www.3blue1brown.com/topics/linear-algebra

## Convex optimization

Visually Explained's _Convex Optimization_ video series provides geometric intuition for convex optimization and the interior-point method.

> Visually Explained. _Convex Optimization_, 2021. https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLqwozWPBo-FuPu4d9pFOobsCF1vDGdY_I

Sleipnir's authors learned numerical optimization from the following book and relied heavily upon it to implement Sleipnir.

> Nocedal, J. and Wright, S. _Numerical Optimization_, 2nd. ed., Springer, 2006. https://www.math.uci.edu/~qnie/Publications/NumericalOptimization.pdf

See [internal algorithms](https://sleipnirgroup.github.io/Sleipnir/md_docs_2algorithms.html) for derivations of Newton's method (unconstrained optimization), sequential quadratic programming (optimization with equality constraints), and interior-point method (optimization with equality and inequality constraints). The bottom of that page lists works cited by Sleipnir's internals.
